Welcome back.
I want to improve this function just a little bit.
You see, ideally, we don't want to fill the cache in what we call the global scope, that is to be
living outside of this function.
Ideally it's good practice to have memory or in this case, the cash to live inside of this function,
not polluting the global scope.
And there's many ways to do this based on the language in JavaScript.
We can use something called closures.
And this is what it would look like.
And I'm showing you this because when we get to dynamic programming, you're going to see this pattern
a lot.
Luckily, with dynamic programming, the pattern is usually always the same.
So once you learn this, then it becomes easier and easier.
So the way we bring this inside of the function is to, well, bring it in like that.
But the problem is now that every time we run this.
We get long time each time because the cash gets reset every time the function gets called.
So the cash becomes an empty object.
To get around this, we can use closures and JavaScript and we can return another function.
So a function that returns another function.
And in here we'll pass the parameter and.
And we'll have the.
Logic inside of this function.
That's it.
And because of something called closure, we're able to access this cash inside of this child function.
Now, this isn't a course about JavaScript, so you can read up on closure on your own.
But this is just a way for us to avoid that global scope so that this time around we can do something
like this.
We can simply say cost memorized equals.
Memorized.
Add to 80.
And we'll run this function.
And we can actually even remove the parameter from here.
So that we have flexibility.
Let me show you.
We have the memo here, which hopefully I can spell memorized so that now.
This function because I ran it is going to return for me.
This function memorized equals this function.
That's literally what memorized add to 80 returns.
And I have access to this cache variable so that in here I can just say memorized five and memorized.
Six.
If I had run.
I still get the same thing.
But if I do five and five and I hit run.
Look at that.
It's memorized.
This function remembers that the parameter has not changed.
It's the same parameter and it's going to check the cache and say, I don't need to do all that silly
calculation.
I already have it.
Here you go.
Just using a hash table.
Here it is.
And what we just learned here is really powerful because it allows us to be very efficient with our
code, something that we know interviewers love, companies love.
And dynamic programming allows us to use what we know now about memorization to optimize our code.
Let's find out more in the next video.